What?
Why don't you just tell me your name again so I can... They are supposed to create a young people's section.
Yes, but tell me your name.
Oh, my name.
Why don't you write it down for me?
Do you mind?
No, I'm interested in collections development and readers and... So you're a librarian?
And you're from France.
And what did you do in France?
For the moment, I am at school in ANSIB, which is the French National School for Librarians.
What's the name of it again?
ANSIB.
E-N-S-S-I-B.
And that's the French National School for Librarians.
Yeah.
OK, so you're studying to be a librarian?
Yeah, and during the study, we have to make a training, and I have to choose this one.
Oh, cool.
In your studies, to be a librarian, is the focus on technology now?
Yeah, there's a big, big, big focus on technologies, of computers, of information systems, and so on, yeah.
But how about books, the printed book?
About?
the importance of the printed book, is that still a matter of... About the numerization, things like that?
Well, in terms of philosophically, the book as opposed to technology, as opposed to computers... Well, in fact, there is not really a study about such a philosophical thing.
We are most supposed to be, how to say that, technicians,
Well, we have to know how those things work, but not exactly how to create them.
So tell me then what you're doing here.
You said you're working with young people in terms of people or the literature?
No, about the young people section.
It is a section for people between 14 and 18 years old.
At this library?
Yeah, in this library.
It will be a 20,000 books collection on 400...
I don't know how to say it.
Metters?
Metters, sure.
And this section will be in Arabic, French and English.
Well, let's talk a little bit about them.
Let's not waste any time then if we can.
Let's have a cup of tea and coffee.
You got time yourself?
I have time, but the interview for me is most important to be able to write my article.
Before you, before you... Talking to Dr. Zarey.
Alexandria.
So tell me a little bit about how is the collection development going right now?
The collection development is going well.
We have a feasibility study, collection development policy that has been established with the support of a few UNESCO experts and through two symposia that were held in the last couple of years.
And collection development follows two
major sections one is the acquisition through purchase and acquisitions through gifts and this we get both that specially those books traditional or electronic that deal with the various interests of the library objectives
were first concentrate on Alexandria, the city, the city and the region, the city, history, past, present, and the future in mind, I'm talking about comprehensive, comprehensive future development of the city, and then Egypt as a general circle, bigger circle, then the Mediterranean.
We Mediterranean
has two circles, the circle of the Middle East and the circle of Europe because always the library of Alexandria in history served this region that was the lighthouse of knowledge for the region and the giving of that library has helped the development of this region during the olden age, during the Ptolemic and
the roman era when the library ended or was destroyed and took various phase of destruction by the end of the fourth century but the giving of that library continued the giving of the scholars of that library the knowledge that they give the world that we know about so even though the building itself ceased to exist but the illumination the illumination
The illumination of the building continued until today.
Something that is recognized when you say Einstein, when he was prepared to announce his theory of relativity back in the late teens, 1918, 1919, he found that some of his calculations contradicted with the theories of Euclides of Alexandria.
And he postponed it so he will be in harmony with history.
So there's continuity of past and present and the future.
Do you hope to be a center for primary scholarship in terms of attracting scholars, as the ancient library did, to do primary research here?
Do you expect to have that kind of depth in your collections?
This is the idea when we talk about the revival of the ancient library.
We're not reviving the building.
We're reviving the idea of excellence in scholarship, excellence in knowledge
And we hope this, when we say the library will serve the region, scholars, not only from the region, from other parts of the world, who are interested in the collection that's related to this region, the collection that relates to the region, will have a state of uniqueness that will make it a heaven for them, for scholars, to do their, what you call, unique research, that will be published by the library itself, and be in contact with the state of the art, through the state of the art,
systems and networks to all nodes of information around the world.
So the information won't necessarily, the primary sources won't necessarily have to be here physically in Alexandria.
You don't have to be here.
You can reach out, as you say.
Yes, yes.
Because we're talking about globalization now.
We're talking about a global village.
Now, knowledge has no place of its own.
The borders of time and place have disappeared, whether we like it or not.
This is a fact of life.
We're talking about internet, information superhighway.
What do you mean by information superhighway?
The event in Washington or in Tokyo, the events, the information reaches you instantaneously.
So place and time becomes of no relevance.
How about the role of the printed book in this?
It will continue to be, especially for scholarship.
Especially for scholarship.
A scholar still refers to information, to maps, to details that he could not get by internet, say, by patient search.
And the prize of a scholar is through the search, not the result.
The result is the end of a long search.
It's like
It's like saying daylight.
Daylight doesn't come at dawn without a process happening before it.
A daylight is an event.
Through a procedure, a process happens.
Work, research work, as an university professor myself.
My joy is in searching through the knowledge and synthesizing all the bits of information.
Is it your hope that this will be a great research library?
It will take time to not be at the time of inauguration.
Give it its time.
The baby has a promise of this newly born baby.
The new biblioteca Alexandrina has a promise of genius.
Wonderful quote.
I love it.
Excellent.
And based on its history,
that will catapult it to new horizons, undreamt of.
You see, a promise of genius might even be the title of the chapter, by the way.
I'm looking for it.
I don't know.
I'm seeing my book as we talk, you see.
How large of a collection do you
plan to have?
What do you think?
The opening will be around 350.
We have it already, by the way.
350,000?
Yes.
Here?
Not here in the site, but elsewhere?
Well, we've processed things here.
We have the process.
We have been from local area networks processed.
So it will be hooked, migrated to the new system, information system, and stored in the conference center next to the library.
So it's in the conference center, yes.
With the storage places they have.
Not in the halls themselves, but they are
storage places next to it, around it, in the annexes next to it.
And taken care of there.
We have also a unique collection already.
We have just one, the municipality library, a unique collection from the special Arab scholars in various fields, in chemistry, physics, theology, biology, medicine, astronomy.
This is a unique collection?
Unique collection.
Already the governor has given that collection.
The governor of Alexandria.
Of Alexandria.
A collection that has already been built up over a period of years?
Yes, yes.
And this comprises how many volumes, would you say, approximately?
Altogether about 10,000.
And what's the name of it again?
Municipality Library Collection.
So already you have something that is... Yes, we have it already in our custody now.
Because we have promised to maintain it, to restore it,
to conserve it because it was in a full collection, full space over there.
I had to spend money on it to preserve it.
And to make it accessible.
Which is just as important as everything.
And digitize it.
Oh, you're going to digitize it.
We're working on digitizing.
Microfilming?
Yes.
Microfilm is very important, and it's very good.
This is the first thing.
Microfilming, then digitizing.
I've been to Cornell University for this project, of course, where they are using digitization as a mode of preservation.
And it's very, very controversial, of course, because we don't know how long digital material will last.
So we have the original material.
We have it on microfilm.
And for microfilm, we change it to digital.
We'll see how it works.
But you always have the original as a protection.
Yes, because everybody says digital library is a good touch.
But for how long can you guarantee it?
It's a new thing.
Nobody can claim.
They say 100 years.
Who knows?
We have things in the United States now that, after 20 years, is useless.
When we sent space probes out to take pictures of the planets, the Viking material, 30% of that material is useless now because it's on magnetic tape, which is degraded.
I'll be writing about this in my book.
I've traveled the world.
I've been to Leipzig, where they are working on mass deacidification, for instance.
Very, very interesting.
But of course, the promise of genius is very important.
Tell me a little bit about the design of the library.
Is it a symbolic design?
Yes.
Well, really, I should say I'm lucky to have been involved in this project since its infancy, pre-creation, since pre-creation, back in the 84, 85.
And I also was involved in
in the development of the program, which is called the architectural brief.
And I was also a member of the jury that selected the design.
It was an international architecture competition that was held back in 1988.
And the jury, international jury, selected the winning design from 1,400 participants from 77 nations.
The jury of 11 people.
which included the IUA, people from the States, Japan, Europe, we include England, France, Germany, Italy, Egypt, and Japan.
So we selected this winning design by a Norwegian team, young people.
They won over big offices around the world with young people.
This is the promise of the future.
This is exciting.
I love it.
Young people can really overwhelm the long, established, big offices.
That's what a library is all about, isn't it?
For the future.
The promise of the future.
Yes.
And they want it.
This idea is the idea.
The idea is that attracted the joy.
Not a functional, classic building.
The idea wants something.
a building that would defy time a building that would also pay homage to the heritage that will carry the torch of the ancient library through its conception the idea of its conception so their conception was this circle a huge circle, 160 meters in diameter
that's tipped toward the eastern harbor, which is also circular.
Which is also what?
Circular.
Circular, yes.
And the world is circular, and we dance around in circles.
And our mind is circular in shape.
And our eyes are circular.
And the sun is circular.
And it is tipped, and part of it is hidden underground to give you the idea, an incline, a circle like that one, to give you the idea of a perpetual sunrise.
May I take your picture while you're talking, by the way?
Do you mind?
Yes, please.
Like a perpetual sunrise.
Because if you see the whole disk above ground, you would say the sun has risen, becomes past tense.
But because it is hidden, partly hidden, below ground circle.
Partly hidden below ground level, you would say it is, the sun is rising.
Because part of it is hidden, as a continual sunrise.
And the circle will also, through its being associated with
forms that will remain with us, with human beings, for generations and for centuries to come.
The sun will continue to be circular.
Did the Norwegian architects articulate this?
No, I could see it in it.
I could see it as a judge.
I could see it in it.
Yes, this is wonderful.
I could see it in it because this idea is a promise.
The promise.
and in terms of functionality so this is the circle and when they show the circle also they have the moon next to it the sun is the library the moon is the planetarium which is the foreground in this picture so you have this play of two things the high and the low the perfect then the imperfect the complete then incomplete
The present and the future.
The future is incomplete.
The present is the complete one.
It touches too.
The linkage, the twilight of time, the twilight of space.
Wonderful.
So, we have chosen a design that will not be a fad or a fashion.
A fad is the word.
Yes.
It will not be fashionable for some time.
Like, you know, so many designs are fashionable today.
But how about tomorrow?
We want something that will come to a generation that we will also identify with and keep it and uphold it.
So this library is as important for its symbolic value as it is for its function.
Would you agree with that?
It carries both together.
You cannot separate because it is oneness.
The circle is oneness.
Function and form are
Oneness.
You cannot separate them together.
Go inside under this circular roof, which is like a microchip, by the way.
Very interesting.
When you look at it.
It is a cascade of levels.
A cascade of what?
Of levels, yes.
When you look inside, a cascade of levels.
An open buffet of knowledge.
Ascora will be like a bee moving from one flower to another, from one field to the next.
where the accommodations of scholars are accommodated at the top, are placed on top.
Like the higher you go, the highest level is where the scholars will be.
The higher you go, supposedly, the more you know.
The levels, the cascade of levels.
And this is actually, you think this will operate in practice?
Yes, this is what it has designed.
The accommodations are there.
The cells from the scholars are there.
So really, the more advanced the level of scholarship, the higher level you will be occupying.
Yes, and the more horizons you will see, because the higher you will see the horizons.
Was this again the idea of the architect?
I could see it in it.
I could see it in actuality.
It's wonderful.
And this is the building itself.
The library of Alexandria is not
You see, all libraries have separate holes.
What I'm sorry?
Separate.
Separate holes.
Separate?
Holes.
You know, this library for the old library for the recession, library for the audio people.
All libraries have holes.
Various holes or reading rooms.
Reading rooms.
This is for maps, this is for this, this is for that.
So really, scholars don't feel each other.
Everybody is separated in his little hall or reading hall.
And this you could see in the British Library, in the Library of Congress, in the new French Library.
But this one is an open buffet.
There is no separation.
The young can see the old.
Not this, you need this.
And they can also aspire to rise.
Yes.
Always.
This is one of the important, shall I say, strivings of man.
Yes.
The seven strivings of man.
Number four is identity.
Yes.
That's very interesting.
I'm not familiar with that.
I'll check that out.
By Maslow, he was a sociologist who wrote about it.
You know, the basic thing, the first thing was security, protection.
Who wrote about it again?
It's a theory by Maslow.
M-A-S-L-O-W.
You know, the basic things, you know, your protection, security.
Secure, away from threats.
So self-preservation.
Food.
shelter you know and then and of course preservation of kind this is one of like you know the basic thing procreation yeah then then identification achievements want to to do better better more you are not always content with this
That's it.
Otherwise, what's the purpose of it all?
This is part of striving.
What was your reaction when you heard about this project, this new project?
What was your response when it was proposed to do this new biblioteca?
You see, I was from the beginning there in the preparatory committee, because we have been always in the Library of Alexandria, in the University of Alexandria, I'm a professor of university.
No, the role of the library, the ancient library, we are in the vicinity of its history, of its giving to the world.
We wanted its, what you call, renaissance.
Renaissance.
Alexandria deserves to be a special place because of its history.
It defied time.
It is one of the oldest planned living cities in the world.
Planned.
Planned, had a plan by the Necrotees.
Absolutely.
I never thought of it, but it's absolutely true.
One of the oldest planned living cities, and we know how the Necrotees did it.
We know how we have the plan already.
So one of the oldest planned, it was a planned city built according to a plan, and living cities.
And it suffered a great deal.
through many civilizations that passed in it through it.
Went through the process of birth, growth, maturity, but not death, birth again.
See that?
The sign curve?
Yes.
Let the tape record note that the professor just did a sign curve.
What do you teach at the university?
What is your field?
I'm basically architect, planner.
Do you have a CV that I could have for your background that would help you in life?
Yes.
CV 30.
I don't want to bother to ask you that.
I think it will all be contained in the CV.
We're covering a lot of brown, by the way, which is very good.
So we're talking about the spirit of, this will be a gig.
You know, I was thinking, looking out my hotel window, the arms of the harbor.
It's almost like a welcoming embrace, the way the harbor and the lighthouse out there.
Oh, my goodness.
You echoed my thoughts.
I've always expressed what you've said there.
Is that right?
Yes.
They said, you see, in the harbor of Alexander, the eastern harbor,
And this harbor is from Alexander's time.
It was the eastern harbor.
It was the main harbor, by the way.
And now it's recreational harbor.
The western harbor is a commercial harbor.
Yes, in the harbor, you can see the Cai Bay fortress.
The fortress Cai Bay.
This has been built in the place where the Ferris Lighthouse.
I went out there last night just to feel it, just to absorb the ambiance of the place.
The Ferris Lighthouse was there.
and some of the stones have been used also in the building in the fortress so I always say you see the library is here and this is the breakwater and this is the Feros lighthouse this is the Feros location and this is the library location is in here so I always say I always say this that
The fortress Kite Bay is located at the western arm of the harbor.
The western arm of the harbor.
The western arm of the harbor guarding the body, the fortress.
And the rival of Alexandria is standing at the tip of the eastern arm guarding the spirit and the mind.
And that is the Alexandrian library of today, and also the ancient one, because you were very close to the original site, aren't you?
Almost in the royal quarter where the ancient one once stood.
So physically, and then we think of the symbolism of the light.
You had the lighthouse, which was a beacon.
It would project rays, inviting people, scholars, to come.
And here you are, you have a reflecting object.
Yes.
Which is to receive that light and then reflect it.
The symbolism is continuous, isn't it?
Continuous, yes.
This is the way I saw it, I see it.
That's why when we had just two weeks ago in the conference center, which is functioning, by the way, we've had it functioning for the last five, six years with conferences and performances and all of this, we had just two weeks ago the first annual
We are functioning already as a library.
First annual Bibliotheca Alexandrina symposium.
And the title is the Bibliotheca Alexandrina Continuum.
Yes.
I have two chapters in my new book called Continuum.
This is perfect.
What do you see as the role, the function of the library, not just the Bibliotheca Alexandrina, but the library in the 21st century?
Is it the same as it has always been, or is it acquiring a new role and new function?
You see, the library of Alexandria of today and the future, of course, is not really a traditional library in terms of components.
This is a unique bibliothèque Alexandria.
Don't say, like what?
Don't compare it to another.
This is one and the one.
It had in it, of course, as I said, yes, the various
The various roots of knowledge are there.
Literature, art, science and technology, philosophy, social sciences, you name it.
And it has accommodations for scholars.
It has the international school for information studies, preparing for the staffing and for the people dealing with the information technology, where in the age coming millennium is the technotronic age.
as they call it.
It has in it the planetarium and the science museum.
It has also in it the museum, the science museum is for the achievements of sciences.
But we have the museum of the pieces of archaeology that we found at the site will be displayed there.
We have calligraphy museum and the institute of calligraphy because the art of writing started in this region.
It has state-of-the-art information system.
It is one of the most modern in the world now, even more advanced than the Bibliothèque Nationale de France, because it will be multilingual and multi-alphabet.
You were talking about the computer system now?
Yes, the information system.
That's the information system, which will be hooked to other nodes of information across the Mediterranean, in Europe, and across to
America and Japan.
Everywhere in the world.
Yes.
Information superhighway.
Hyperway.
Hyperway now.
So it is a different role.
Because the means are different.
And the users are different.
And the world is different.
So what we are reviving in the new building is the idea of the excellence in knowledge.
duplicating any other library or duplicating any other research institution.
It is par excellence the new Bibliotheca Alexandrina.
That will help, especially in this region, the cultural development.
So through which we're talking about change of pace, change of thoughts, change of attitude, tolerance, cooperation, peace, understanding.
And through this sound socio-economic
development can be instituted on solid basis.
And the experience, if I may say, the experience of Iran when the Shah spent so much on economic development.
But the mind wasn't ready for it.
It stopped.
I said it again, it was clear.
The mind wasn't ready for it.
So if you establish this, means the cultural and social development, attitudes, then sound socio-economic development can take place, can be instituted on a solid basis.
Bridges of understanding, bridges of cooperation.
This is the UNDP, this is Rez Reb once said,
UNDP and his event program in Cairo will be the window not only of Egypt but of Africa and the region toward the north window of not only Egypt but Africa as a Middle East toward the north toward Europe and this will linkage between the north and the south the east and the west and of course the the participation of the United Nations really
has great symbolic value as well, doesn't it?
Yes.
UNESCO is supporting us.
We have a treaty, we have an agreement with UNESCO for support of it.
Something that I wonder why the US has stayed away from it.
I don't understand.
I'm wondering.
Just wondering.
And who will administer this library?
It has a board international.
We have already a board.
But I mean, it will not be affiliated with the university or anything.
No, no.
An independent entity.
Why should it be affiliated?
It should be affiliated with.
That's correct, yes.
But it will be an independent, autonomous entity.
Yes, entity.
That's wonderful.
You know, I've taken up a lot of your time, and I think, is there anything else that you feel like?
No, really, this is a message that I would like you to carry.
Yes.
As a torch carrier.
It's my honor to do this.
To people, maybe this generation would read it, maybe coming generation would read it.
But the message will be there.
That it is theirs, it is ours, it is yours.
It's yours like it is ours.
I'm not building it for myself.
I have reached the time already.
I'm working on what you call pastime,
You see, my hair is gray as well.
So I'm doing my job, but this is a promise for the future as well.
And it's more than just, as we say, the 21st century.
It's beyond.
That's why I like about the design.
It is not associated with the fashion of today.
Perhaps 100 years from now,
Lassan will also be popular, as we are domain beings as we are, the circle that is.
And then just briefly, I know you told me about, I think your ultimate capacity, I think you said you project four million volumes, is that about right?
Yes, yes.
And then in terms of the... But the electronic will be more, because electronic would not take... That's right, but you plan to have full electronic...
Thank you so much.